README.md, before:

UPchieve web server
===================

> Web server providing endpoints for the UPchieve web client

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/UPchieve/server.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/UPchieve/server)

**Table of Contents**

- [Local Development](#local-development)
    - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    - [Build Setup](#build-setup)
    - [Test Users](#test-users)
- [Structure](#structure)
    - [config.js](#configjs)
    - [models](#models)
    - [router](#router)
    - [controllers](#controllers)
    - [services](#services)
- [Endpoints](#endpoints)
    - [POST /auth/login](#post-authlogin)
    - [GET /auth/logout](#get-authlogout)
    - [POST /auth/register/checkcred](#post-authregistercheckcred)
    - [POST /auth/register](#post-authregister)
    - [POST /auth/reset/send](#post-authresetsend)
    - [POST /auth/reset/confirm](#post-authresetconfirm)
    - [POST /api/session/new](#post-apisessionnew)
    - [POST /api/session/check](#post-apisessioncheck)
    - [POST /api/training/questions](#post-apitrainingquestions)
    - [POST /api/training/score](#post-apitrainingscore)
    - [POST /api/calendar/init](#post-apicalendarinit)
    - [POST /api/calendar/get](#post-apicalendarget)
    - [POST /api/calendar/save](#post-apicalendarsave)
    - [POST /api/feedback](#post-apifeedback)
    - [GET /api/user](#get-apiuser)
    - [PUT /api/user](#put-apiuser)
    - [GET /api/user/:id](#get-apiuserid)
    - [POST /api/verify/send](#post-apiverifysend)
    - [POST /api/verify/confirm](#post-apiverifyconfirm)
    - [POST /moderate/message](#post-moderatemessage)


Local Development
-----------------

### Dependencies

1. Node.js
2. MongoDB 

See `.tool-versions` for version info.

### Version management

The recommended tool for version managment is [`asdf`][asdf].

To install the appropriate versions of Node and Mongo, ensure their asdf plugins
are installed. (See their repos for complete installation instructions.)

- [`asdf-nodejs`][asdf-nodejs]

```shell-script
asdf plugin-add nodejs https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf-nodejs.git
bash ~/.asdf/plugins/nodejs/bin/import-release-team-keyring
asdf install nodejs [VERSION]
```

- [`asdf-mongodb`][asdf-mongodb]

```shell-script
asdf plugin-add mongodb https://github.com/UPchieve/asdf-mongodb
asdf install mongodb [VERSION]
```

[asdf]: https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf
[asdf-nodejs]: https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf-nodejs
[asdf-mongodb]: https://github.com/UPchieve/asdf-mongodb

### Setup

1. Start a local MongoDB server by running `mongod`. In a separate terminal, you can try connecting to the database by running `mongo` (`mongod` to start the database vs. `mongo` to connect via command line!). Run `quit()` to exit the shell. You can also interface with the database using a free MongoDB GUI such as [MongoDB Compass Community](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/)
2. Run `bin/setup` to set up the database with test users and install dependencies.
   Run with `--verbose` to debug if needed.
3. Populate `config.js` with auth tokens (ask a teammate if you need
   any of these--improvements forthcoming).
4. Run `npm run dev` to start the dev server on `http://localhost:3000`.
5. See [the web client repo](https://github.com/UPchieve/web) for client
   installation


### Test Users

The database is populated with the following users for local development:

| email                     | password      |
|:--------------------------|:--------------|
| `student1@upchieve.org`   | `Password123` |
| `volunteer1@upchieve.org` | `Password123` |
| `volunteer2@upchieve.org` | `Password123` |

Structure
---------

The root folder of the repository provides the bootstrap file `main.js` and a
package definitions file.

### config.js

`config.js` contains a map of configuration keys for running the server. All
keys and sensitive information should be placed in this file.

### models

Model definitions that map to database models, along with related methods to act
on those models, such as parsing, validation, and data transformations.

### router

Directory structure mimics the endpoint structure exposed by the server. Each
file provides one or more endpoint routes, responsible for request
acceptance/rejection and error handling.

### controllers

Routes use controllers to perform the business logic of the server, providing
separation of concerns: the controllers have no need to be aware of how the
endpoints work. Instead, a controller provides ways to allow the routes to
trigger something (a user update, e.g.)

### services

A service is a step higher than a controller. Services provide abstract
functions to one or many controllers, often to interface with third party
services.

Endpoints
---------

### POST /auth/login

Expects the following request body:

```json
{
  "email": "String",
  "password": "String"
}
```

Authenticates the user with a session if credentials are correct.

### GET /auth/logout

Removes the user's current session.

### POST /auth/register/checkcred

Check whether the credential user entered is valid. (first step of registeration)
The server will check is there any duplications for email and validate the password.

```json
{
  "email": "String",
  "password": "String"
}
```

Possible errors:

- Email/password not provided
- Password does not meet requirements
- Email is not valid
- Email already exists

### POST /auth/register

Create a new account based on the information posted.

```json
{
  "email": "String",
  "password": "String",
  "code": "String",
  "highSchool": "String",
  "firstName": "String",
  "lastName": "String"
}
```

Possible errors:

- Email/password not provided
- Password does not meet requirements
- Email is not valid
- Email already exists
- Could not hash password
- Could not send verification email (for volunteers)

### POST /auth/reset/send

```json
{
  "email": "String"
}
```

### POST /auth/reset/confirm

```json
{
  "email": "String",
  "password": "String",
  "newpassword": "String",
  "token": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/session/new

```json
{
  "sessionType": "String",
  "sessionSubTopic": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/session/check

```json
{
  "sessionId": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/training/questions

```json
{
  "category": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/training/score

```json
{
  "userid": "String",
  "idAnswerMap": "String",
  "category": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/calendar/init

```json
{
  "userid": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/calendar/get

```json
{
  "userid": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/calendar/save

```json
{
  "userid": "String",
  "availability": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/feedback

```json
{
  "sessionId": "String",
  "responseData": "String"
}
```

### GET /api/user

Returns a sanitized public user record for the currently authenticated user

### PUT /api/user

Accepts a request body with fields mapping to profile fields to update for the
currently authenticated user:

```json
{
  "picture": "String"
}
```

### GET /api/user/:id

Returns a sanitized public user record for a user with the given id. May perform
checks on the authorization level of the current user to strip out priveliged
information.

### POST /api/verify/send

Sends an email to verify the current user with unique hash. The email provided
will overwrite the user record's email, in the event that the two do not match.

```json
{
  "email": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/verify/confirm

Accepts a token used to verify the current user.

```json
{
  "token": "String"
}
```

### POST /moderate/message

Expects the following request body:

```json
{
  "content": "string with the content of a message"
}
```

TODO: re-implement the moderation/fitlering at this endpoint. We need to roll our own regex solution to replace what CleanSpeak previously provided. Main thing to filter is contact info (emails, phone numbers, etc). Also filter the worst slurs.

```javascript
{
  "isClean": true // or false
}
```

Commit message:

Update README.md with steps for Windows

README.md, after:

UPchieve web server
===================

> Web server providing endpoints for the UPchieve web client

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/UPchieve/server.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/UPchieve/server)

**Table of Contents**

- [Local Development](#local-development)
    - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    - [Build Setup](#build-setup)
    - [Test Users](#test-users)
- [Structure](#structure)
    - [config.js](#configjs)
    - [models](#models)
    - [router](#router)
    - [controllers](#controllers)
    - [services](#services)
- [Endpoints](#endpoints)
    - [POST /auth/login](#post-authlogin)
    - [GET /auth/logout](#get-authlogout)
    - [POST /auth/register/checkcred](#post-authregistercheckcred)
    - [POST /auth/register](#post-authregister)
    - [POST /auth/reset/send](#post-authresetsend)
    - [POST /auth/reset/confirm](#post-authresetconfirm)
    - [POST /api/session/new](#post-apisessionnew)
    - [POST /api/session/check](#post-apisessioncheck)
    - [POST /api/training/questions](#post-apitrainingquestions)
    - [POST /api/training/score](#post-apitrainingscore)
    - [POST /api/calendar/init](#post-apicalendarinit)
    - [POST /api/calendar/get](#post-apicalendarget)
    - [POST /api/calendar/save](#post-apicalendarsave)
    - [POST /api/feedback](#post-apifeedback)
    - [GET /api/user](#get-apiuser)
    - [PUT /api/user](#put-apiuser)
    - [GET /api/user/:id](#get-apiuserid)
    - [POST /api/verify/send](#post-apiverifysend)
    - [POST /api/verify/confirm](#post-apiverifyconfirm)
    - [POST /moderate/message](#post-moderatemessage)


Local Development
-----------------

### Dependencies

1. Node.js
2. MongoDB 

See `.tool-versions` for version info.

### Version management

The recommended tool for version managment is [`asdf`][asdf]. For Windows, use [`WSL`][wsl] (Windows Subsystem for Linux), and install the appropriate Linux shell distribution.

To install the appropriate versions of Node and Mongo, ensure their asdf plugins
are installed. (See their repos for complete installation instructions.)

- [`asdf-nodejs`][asdf-nodejs]

```shell-script
asdf plugin-add nodejs https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf-nodejs.git
bash ~/.asdf/plugins/nodejs/bin/import-release-team-keyring
asdf install nodejs [VERSION]
```

- [`asdf-mongodb`][asdf-mongodb]

```shell-script
asdf plugin-add mongodb https://github.com/UPchieve/asdf-mongodb
asdf install mongodb [VERSION]
```

[wsl]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10
[asdf]: https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf
[asdf-nodejs]: https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf-nodejs
[asdf-mongodb]: https://github.com/UPchieve/asdf-mongodb

### Setup

1. Start a local MongoDB server by running `mongod`. In a separate terminal, you can try connecting to the database by running `mongo` (`mongod` to start the database vs. `mongo` to connect via command line!). Run `quit()` to exit the shell. You can also interface with the database using a free MongoDB GUI such as [MongoDB Compass Community](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/)
2. Run `bin/setup` to set up the database with test users and install dependencies.
   Run with `--verbose` to debug if needed.
3. Populate `config.js` with auth tokens (ask a teammate if you need
   any of these--improvements forthcoming).
4. Run `npm run dev` to start the dev server on `http://localhost:3000`. For Windows, if you get a [`bcrypt`][bcrypt] compilement error, run `npm rebuild`.
5. See [the web client repo](https://github.com/UPchieve/web) for client
   installation

[bcrypt]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcrypt

### Test Users

The database is populated with the following users for local development:

| email                     | password      |
|:--------------------------|:--------------|
| `student1@upchieve.org`   | `Password123` |
| `volunteer1@upchieve.org` | `Password123` |
| `volunteer2@upchieve.org` | `Password123` |

Structure
---------

The root folder of the repository provides the bootstrap file `main.js` and a
package definitions file.

### config.js

`config.js` contains a map of configuration keys for running the server. All
keys and sensitive information should be placed in this file.

### models

Model definitions that map to database models, along with related methods to act
on those models, such as parsing, validation, and data transformations.

### router

Directory structure mimics the endpoint structure exposed by the server. Each
file provides one or more endpoint routes, responsible for request
acceptance/rejection and error handling.

### controllers

Routes use controllers to perform the business logic of the server, providing
separation of concerns: the controllers have no need to be aware of how the
endpoints work. Instead, a controller provides ways to allow the routes to
trigger something (a user update, e.g.)

### services

A service is a step higher than a controller. Services provide abstract
functions to one or many controllers, often to interface with third party
services.

Endpoints
---------

### POST /auth/login

Expects the following request body:

```json
{
  "email": "String",
  "password": "String"
}
```

Authenticates the user with a session if credentials are correct.

### GET /auth/logout

Removes the user's current session.

### POST /auth/register/checkcred

Check whether the credential user entered is valid. (first step of registeration)
The server will check is there any duplications for email and validate the password.

```json
{
  "email": "String",
  "password": "String"
}
```

Possible errors:

- Email/password not provided
- Password does not meet requirements
- Email is not valid
- Email already exists

### POST /auth/register

Create a new account based on the information posted.

```json
{
  "email": "String",
  "password": "String",
  "code": "String",
  "highSchool": "String",
  "firstName": "String",
  "lastName": "String"
}
```

Possible errors:

- Email/password not provided
- Password does not meet requirements
- Email is not valid
- Email already exists
- Could not hash password
- Could not send verification email (for volunteers)

### POST /auth/reset/send

```json
{
  "email": "String"
}
```

### POST /auth/reset/confirm

```json
{
  "email": "String",
  "password": "String",
  "newpassword": "String",
  "token": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/session/new

```json
{
  "sessionType": "String",
  "sessionSubTopic": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/session/check

```json
{
  "sessionId": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/training/questions

```json
{
  "category": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/training/score

```json
{
  "userid": "String",
  "idAnswerMap": "String",
  "category": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/calendar/init

```json
{
  "userid": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/calendar/get

```json
{
  "userid": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/calendar/save

```json
{
  "userid": "String",
  "availability": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/feedback

```json
{
  "sessionId": "String",
  "responseData": "String"
}
```

### GET /api/user

Returns a sanitized public user record for the currently authenticated user

### PUT /api/user

Accepts a request body with fields mapping to profile fields to update for the
currently authenticated user:

```json
{
  "picture": "String"
}
```

### GET /api/user/:id

Returns a sanitized public user record for a user with the given id. May perform
checks on the authorization level of the current user to strip out priveliged
information.

### POST /api/verify/send

Sends an email to verify the current user with unique hash. The email provided
will overwrite the user record's email, in the event that the two do not match.

```json
{
  "email": "String"
}
```

### POST /api/verify/confirm

Accepts a token used to verify the current user.

```json
{
  "token": "String"
}
```

### POST /moderate/message

Expects the following request body:

```json
{
  "content": "string with the content of a message"
}
```

TODO: re-implement the moderation/fitlering at this endpoint. We need to roll our own regex solution to replace what CleanSpeak previously provided. Main thing to filter is contact info (emails, phone numbers, etc). Also filter the worst slurs.

```javascript
{
  "isClean": true // or false
}
```
